Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
Contrast.
That we went
from two years of corona standstill
suddenly to this.
-Yeah.
-Which made it almost too much at times.
But now when I think back in retrospect.
it really was crazy.
Beautiful. isn't it?
UNITED STATES. SEPTEMBER 2022
To us it feels short. But secretly
we've been playing for a long time.
The first ten years.
we weren't really Suzan & Freek. but…
-It was there though.
-Yeah.
Suus studied in Delft.
I went to Delft a few times a week.
I had my guitar and a camera. That's where
we started recording The Minutes.
When we'd play till five in the morning.
we had to pack up ourselves.
I think the best way to keep going
is to stay true to yourself
because it's easy
to get dragged into all the fuss.
If a lot of people say you're fantastic.
you also believe you're fantastic.
Luckily. we have each other
to share it a bit.
I want to keep my boundaries
and be okay with myself.
I still want to identify
with my friends and those around me.
So that I don't…
I want to stay the same.
-And I'm grateful for you.
-Yeah?
-We did well together. didn't we?
-Yes. we did.
You often say. "I really like
being Suzan from Suzan & Freek."
I say it a lot.
And I really like
being Freek from Suzan & Freek.
That's what I'm most grateful for.
-That we could do it together.
-Yes. me too.
I think it's great too.
Ladies and gentlemen. boys and girls.
Suzan & Freek!
I think Suzan & Freek are the biggest act
in the Netherlands right now.
It seemed like all the special things
you can experience as an artist
were all planned in one month.
I just want
what's private to remain private.
That's the last piece of us
that still belongs to us.
We've become entertainers.
It's remarkable that they're
two down-to-earth people from Achterhoek
who have gained national fame.
Proud.
Yes. I think we did dream of this.
SUZAN & FREEK
BETWEEN YOU AND ME
We're in Berlin.
And on this square.
I asked a very special question.
And what did she say?
Yes!
-We're getting married.
-Yes.
-Apart from our family. no one knows.
-No.
We'll tell everyone soon.
THE ACHTERHOEK
ZWARTE CROSS PRE-PARTY WITH SUZAN & FREEK
JULY 2022
-Hey. brother. All good?
-Yo.
-Sure.
-Yeah. good race?
I think the party is great.
but I hope everyone likes it.
-Hey. Mother.
-Did you finish?
-Yes. of course. Tomorrow--
-A hair.
-Rik and Rob weren't allowed to drive.
-Blood alcohol too high.
-We're watching it.
-Isn't it crazy here?
Yes. it's crazy here.
because I still feel like the old Suzan.
It's a bit stressful with all the people.
Then I have to get on that stage.
I think it's more stressful here.
-Things converge here.
-Yes.
-Nice. right? In Berlin.
-When did it happen?
Nice. right? I was totally surprised.
We were in Berlin on Monday morning.
He said. "What a coincidence.
Coldplay is playing."
"The first concert we went to together."
-That's our style of music.
-I'm getting goosebumps.
He said. "Oh. what a shame.
Or maybe it's not a coincidence."
"I've got great VIP tickets.
The best seats."
"To celebrate love with you.
we're going tonight." Sweet. right?
-Shall we start?
-All good.
-Do it?
-Yes. it's good.
-Do you dare? I don't.
-Yeah.
-Will you do the directing?
-No.
You have to say it.
You have to talk loudly.
You can do it.
-Speech.
-No.
Little speech.
Hello. everyone.
This is uncomfortable.
but we're going to do it anyway.
At least say "hi" to everyone.
Great that you're all here
at our Zwarte Cross pre-party.
Since we probably won't see you
at the festival later.
we thought we'd have a little party here.
And also a little pre-party
for something else
because I got down on one knee
in Berlin for Suus.
How great.
Congratulations.
"Don't you get fed up with each other?"
"Which one wears the pants?"
"Do you ever argue? Oh. what about?"
They always ask which characteristics
of Suus or mine the other doesn't like.
To which I still
need to find the perfect answer.
but it always comes down to.
"No. we really like it…"
It's always the same question.
SIX MONTHS EARLIER
START OF THE CLUB TOUR
Now it's silent
AT HOME
Your hand in mine
Or is this too little to carry on?
I just don't know how
With everything I do
I can't bear it when the evening comes
Oh. because in the evening
I miss you often
I think it was very strange for everyone
because we'd just gone through corona.
We sat at home for two years.
then suddenly we could restart.
We went from zero to a hundred.
Suddenly our schedule was totally full.
So much happened that this…
I feel we have now come so much further.
It all went fairly organically.
There was no great plan
for what to do next.
And the popularity grew.
The shows became bigger.
And then came corona.
Suzan and Freek
kept doing their own thing.
But what no one realized
was that once corona was over.
they had gotten so big.
Actually we knew it.
but we didn't feel it.
We didn't. they didn't either.
I've already thought a hundred times
I'll call you tonight
Tonight
I'll tell you I still think of you
Waited a hundred times
But I'll call you tonight
Tonight
Have you already played this?
-No.
-Okay.
Just the intro as usual.
And then I say "okay" again.
Then you tap him in.
We'll have to see if that goes smoothly.
And then we play it all the way to…
From the bridge. from the sing-along bit.
And at some point.
we start counting out. Then we know it.
That's too complicated. Freek.
It's nice. though.
It doesn't matter. does it?
You'd better get it right tomorrow.
Keep it like it was.
Yes. Freek. It sounds better.
Try to do it one bar earlier.
Give it a try.
But tomorrow we'll do it differently.
Why are we doing this?
-Let's try it once.
-Okay. one more time.
I think Suzan has a keen eye for detail
and wants to be sure
what their product is.
They are both like that.
Freek too. But he's also
a bit of a rocker. so to speak.
-Yeah.
-He has done something.
He wants it to be really great
and assert his own view.
And it's funny that Suus will then say.
"We need to move on now.
We've only got five more minutes."
And that really is the case.
But you can see Freek thinking.
"I don't want that.
I just want to figure this out now."
So that's the conflict.
But I actually think
they have a good balance.
Yeah. me too.
They're the perfect couple
you could follow all day on Instagram
without getting tired of them.
Because they're not acting.
they're genuine.
They don't act any differently
from how we know them.
I like trying out the ideas.
but at some point--
That's what the sound check is for.
As for the rest… We don't have
rehearsals with the band. we have nothing.
That's the time for it. let's use it.
That's true too.
But let's change it first.
Let's try again tomorrow.
We have another show.
-I spent hours on it this morning.
-We're doing it then?
After five minutes. "let's leave it."
Yeah. then I'm going to look into it.
-It doesn't have to be all at once.
-Okay.
I'm not going to do it.
Let's not forget that we're a team.
Yeah. of course.
Hey.
-Hello.
-Hey. Hello.
When you get bigger.
a lot of things come into play.
It becomes more
about other things and less about music.
I have one more question
about Farmer Wants a Wife.
And that's why I want to do things myself.
Because that only has to do
with making music. so to speak.
And…
I miss that sometimes
because everything gets bigger
and music becomes
a smaller percentage of what you're doing.
-Yes.
-Yeah. it's the last show.
-Who's got a yell?
-Who has a yell?
-Well. Super. guys.
-Yeah. Hey!
Maybe it's also a case of letting go.
But we used to do
everything as a pair. so…
And that is a bit…
At some point. someone else has to do it.
But I try to hold on as long as possible
because for me.
it's very much about making music.
and why I started making music
and why I really like playing in a band
and being very much on top
of everything that happens.
The two of us always played covers.
and we decided where it went.
It would be crazy to play with a band now
and let all that go.
Even more beautiful than I imagine
Even more beautiful than your reflection
As an artist. I'm not insecure.
because I'm happy with what we do
and I'm proud of what we do.
As a singer still. sometimes…
because I think
Suus sings much better than me.
And I've always seen myself
more as a guitarist
who also sang a bit.
And now it's the opposite.
I often don't have a guitar
but just stand and sing on stage.
I still often hear a little voice.
"I'm actually a guitarist
who doesn't have his guitar with him."
Thank you.
When I move on stage wearing heels.
I do this. With my heels on.
So I don't move.
I'm much more masculine. or tougher.
And then it doesn't fit together.
And Freek is just really handsome.
He just looks like a model.
And I have a somewhat
more characteristic face.
I'm not totally dissatisfied at all.
but not super satisfied either.
If I look nice. I think. yes that's good.
But if it's a bad angle or something.
I really think…
Then you can really detest yourself.
So…
Yeah. I do find it difficult sometimes.
I don't want
to make a big issue out of it.
I'm rummaging in my purse
with all my drugstore makeup.
When streaming. it's with other women.
But now I'm alone with Freek
and I don't have a real comparison.
But when I'm with other women.
I often have…
Then they have their own makeup artists.
and they sit for hours.
They look great. More and more beautiful.
Then I think a bit.
we have half an hour.
I think I'll see the makeup artist.
Like with the men. I just sit down.
Then I think. should I do more?
Then you doubt yourself.
Is this a good choice?
Because you stand alongside them.
But… yeah.
I'm still a bit lost.
Until now. I've always done it this way.
-Hi there.
-Hello.
I'm covered in sequins.
SINGING COACH
I slept really poorly last night.
maybe just a little stress. I guess.
I felt like it was my stomach.
like you said.
And I ate fruit
and had a good lunch today.
and now I haven't had dinner.
just a banana.
I'll eat right after the show.
to keep my stomach calm.
Because I've noticed
I'm coughing much less now.
-Oh. yes. You see? That's good.
-Yeah.
When we were allowed to perform again.
I got sick after a few shows.
I got a kind of laryngitis.
and I got everything at once.
It really scared me.
"What have I got. how long will it last?"
I was suffering so much
that I even had to cancel some shows.
It was terrible.
Try not to breathe in too much.
Especially where your hand is.
That's it.
It does vibrate a bit.
so you might feel a tickle
but not so bad
that I actually have to cough.
She's a real perfectionist.
If she finds she can't do something well.
she works on it
and makes sure that it's good.
But with your body.
you can't take care of it yourself.
You need to take time to get better.
But she's very hard on herself.
She already found it hard
to sing at 80% for an evening
because she always gives 110%.
So that really caused me a lot of stress.
You suddenly think.
wow. we're all here together
but we're dependent
on my voice and Freek's voice.
Because. however unpleasant.
you can replace a band member.
but if Freek goes on stage
with someone else.
I don't know if people would accept that.
I felt some pressure.
All my life…
-It feels okay.
-Good.
-Just precarious.
-It's all there. right?
I just feel a bit… It will be fine.
And just cast off
the consonants quickly. as Tamara says.
-Or just hold out the mic. Your turn!
-Now your turn.
And if you make it
to a song where you think…
It's tense when you've been sick. but…
you've got it.
Very precise.
If she was working on something.
it had to be--
-Good.
-Good. yes.
She was very busy with music back then.
SUZAN'S PARENTS
Small piano. large piano.
Always busy with music.
You got this. Suusje.
-Huh? Good luck.
-Good luck.
It will be fine.
-It'll be fine. yeah?
-Yeah.
Keep in mind. the audience is up close.
-So you don't get a shock.
Whatever he did.
everything had to be possible.
You could say in advance.
"You can't do that."
FREEK'S MOTHER
Well. he thought it could be done
and did it his own way.
He also didn't care
what he used to make music.
A tiny guitar. ukulele.
even on a tennis racket.
it didn't matter what.
He made the show himself.
When I see him performing now.
I think. Freek. delightful.
You're still that toddler at heart.
Just now you're on a different stage.
But really you're still just
that kid from 15 years ago. so yeah.
Asked for an opinion
I'm no longer myself
And that already feels strange
Normally everything passes me by
But not today
This one's for me
Everyone in Arnhem. Thank you!
Voilà.
-Oh man.
-Hey.
I'm glad I survived it.
-You did it.
-So good. man.
-I'm happy with it.
-Well done.
My voice is better too. thankfully.
It was good. man.
It went well. Good that you jumped in.
If I just stay quiet. I don't cough.
I'm so happy. Really well done.
It was good.
If you haven't played for a week
and then it's suddenly full force.
-Yeah.
-Well done. Are you happy?
-Very happy.
-Relieved?
Yes. it's a relief.
Freek was the first real
serious relationship
where she was really in love.
I think Freek was 14 and Suzan 15…
SUZAN'S SISTER
…so they've been together for a long time.
She was always busy with him.
At our middle school.
we always had school concerts
and the years were a bit mixed.
And then things
kind of developed between them.
That was a love of…
Then. one afternoon.
he was at Suzan's. trampolining
and he came home and said. "We broke up."
"We saw each other too much."
Well. then the courtship was over.
Afterwards. Suus would always say.
"I really miss Freek."
She was on MSN the whole time.
SUZAN'S FRIENDS
-She was online the whole time.
-Yeah.
-So that Freek… Well. it worked.
It didn't take long.
then Freek was like "Hmm."
Freek was a showman.
If I walked into a bar behind him.
all the women's heads would turn…
FREEK'S FRIEND
…and you're there thinking.
"They're all looking at Freek."
I think Freek is the party animal
and Suzan is more serious.
And it works well.
That Freek is occasionally pulled along.
"You're not staying out until three. four.
Come home with me."
And at one point.
I came downstairs on a Sunday evening.
Jesse was on the couch. and I said.
"Freek's forgotten his sweater."
And Jesse said. "If he forgot his sweater.
he's forgotten his shoes too."
Yeah.
And so my dad went straight upstairs.
and they were lying there together.
In the bottom of the bunk bed. I think.
For us. it was a sign
that this was serious.
AT HOME
We spend a lot of time together.
People often ask
if we drive each other crazy.
but I don't think so.
I can spend every day with Freek.
It's all good.
I know him inside and out.
He knows when to keep his mouth shut.
or when he can chat with me.
-Almost 3.000 tickets already sold.
-Great.
In three hours?
-Pretty relaxed.
-"Pretty relaxed"? Totally insane.
If this sells out quickly.
then there's that on top.
And if not?
-Then not.
-Okay.
Then you have a theater tour of 47 shows.
I'm very organized.
but my schedule is full.
This is it. I know exactly….
we don't need to add more.
And Freek can take on three other jobs.
he can handle that.
He never gets stressed. no.
I'm a very responsible person.
I need to sleep well. eat a bit well.
have a bit of structure in my life.
then I have self-confidence.
then I feel good.
And with Freek there.
I don't have to do anything alone.
Freek and I together. that's nice.
I find that I need structure above all.
If I sit on the couch.
it doesn't work out.
because I get into
a kind of miserable state.
I'm waiting
until I can do something again.
I always think I'm quite relaxed.
but sometimes I realize.
maybe if you just keep doing things.
it doesn't necessarily make you relaxed.
But for me. it is also a way
to keep a bit of space free in my head.
PREPARATION FOR ZIGGO DOME SHOWS
-So sick.
-Yeah.
Really funny.
-Fucking huge. hey?
-Yeah.
-Where do we go?
-Here. I think.
I think here too. There's a door.
-Hey.
-Hello.
Should we ask?
It looks like a loading dock.
-No. here's the hall.
-Oh. we're there!
Totally sick. right?
Jesus Christ.
The second section too. that's really…
-It's far away.
-You don't want to be queasy.
You can't imagine
that it will all be full soon.
-Well…
-You can?
Hi. Mom.
-Hi.
-Look where I am.
No amount of money
could get me on that stage.
-I don't doubt it.
-Won't you just die?
-And here's the stage.
-Terrible.
And there's the center stage.
That's funny too.
And where do we stand? Below?
Between the first and second sections.
There's the section
where you can invite people along.
-And you'll be over there.
-Where the lights are?
Yes. by the lights. By the round ones.
Really.
And that's the VIP section
where we always were.
That's where you always performed. right?
Yes. that in-between bit back there.
That's your little tent.
That's our tent. Yes. right.
It got out of control.
Some people go cycling or sit in a bar.
-Freek and Suzan made music together.
-Yes.
And did a lot of performances.
In bars too.
-Until late at night.
-A side job. at the same time.
-It was kind of--
-They worked hard.
Freek had a guitar.
and Suzan had that keyboard.
and Wout helped with the sound.
Suzan herself once said.
"If I know Wout is there.
I can perform well."
So Wout was very important in their lives.
I much preferred
being active behind the scenes.
FREEK'S BROTHER
Freek just enjoyed making music.
We'd often tinker together
to make a pedal board for a guitar.
or he would buy something online…
He didn't have a driver's license.
so I had to go along
or drive him over to Suzan.
Yeah. that was a really good time.
Because everything
we experienced together.
he then used to further himself.
-I'm curious to see if it's the same.
-Yeah.
-The corner here.
They've got new screens.
-Member lounge.
-Oh yeah.
This is where we were.
These tables weren't there
and we stood here.
-Yeah.
-And people sat here eating.
And that's where the food was served.
We would see it coming over.
That was always funny
because usually you're timing it a bit.
You work toward the last song in the set.
To a kind of encore.
That never came.
And here you'd be playing.
and someone would come in.
"The concert is starting."
And everyone would get up.
And we were like. "Have fun!"
-Exactly. "The end."
-Yeah. "Ta-da!"
Here are some more performances
in the Ziggo Dome.
So we were here. That was over there.
-You always had a tie on.
-Always a white shirt with a tie.
If someone needed a waiter.
I was always ready to help.
Here. that was there.
-Yeah.
-How funny.
2014. So that's eight years ago.
Seven-and-a-half years ago.
When they started recording
The Minutes for Facebook.
and they brought out
a new number every week.
they needed a name.
Then they set up a Facebook page
as "Suzan & Freek." That's who they were.
So they didn't think of a real name.
Only when they started performing
as Suzan & Freek
did the name really become their name
because then we could no longer change it.
I thought this time was really nice.
Freek lived in Tilburg.
and Suzan lived in Delft.
They had their own lives. the two of them.
Then they had The Minute.
and on weekends they traveled
to Achterhoek together. if possible.
or separately.
because The Minute had to be recorded.
Then it was released
on Friday evening at 6:30.
That was the best time. Freek said.
to put something on Facebook.
…positioned like that? It's a bit uneven.
That bungling around
eventually helped them move forward.
-Ladies.
-And gentlemen.
-Give yourself a clap.
-Because we have…
Twenty thousand likes!
KORTENHOEF. JANUARY 2022
GOLD
Does it hang like that?
The advantage is
that you're also the artist.
Yes. great.
-A bit more there.
-I agree. Okay.
I think the start and end are great.
but that middle section…
-Yes. much less.
-Do you feel as if…
-It's not connected.
-Just do…
It needs to be simpler.
I'm hearing that now.
The first time I heard of Suzan & Freek.
we had sort of agreed to be in the studio
and get a cup of coffee.
Usually if I'm asked.
I would check. "What do they do?"
Or say. "Send me something."
Or what makes sense at the time.
"Do you have any videos online.
so I can hear what you do?"
So I vaguely remember
that there was a video.
And it needs to grab me right away.
MUSIC PRODUCER
So I think. I like what you're doing.
And I can add something for you.
All my life
I've been meeting the same people
How can it suddenly be so simple?
What if we make this a chorus?
I do feel the urge to--
-You want to do something with this?
-Well…
If you feel it too.
-It's nice.
-It's a strong piece.
We started putting other people's songs
into the "Suzan & Freek" wrapper.
Suus behind the piano. Freek on guitar.
It was instantly good together.
What we're doing sounds cool.
Not concerned about
what the outside world thinks
or how big it could be.
That's not too important in the beginning.
But in time. Just so. right?
This feels totally left.
and that feels totally right.
-That's what we were looking for.
-Exactly.
Let's give ourselves 15 minutes
to get everything set down.
The first thing we ever did
was a song that was a hit at the time.
That was six years ago.
That was The Chainsmokers
with "Don't Let Me Down."
MUSIC VIDEO. 2016
And we gave it a totally different feel
that is typically Suzan & Freek.
Then we said. "This sounds super cool."
We brought it out.
Which means it was on Spotify. you know.
Don't let me down
I remember them standing here.
"Shall we post it or not?"
I said.
"Guys. I'm going to the supermarket."
I came back from shopping.
"You won't believe it.
The artist has responded!"
"I told you that you should do it."
If I recall.
they then did a club tour right away
with covers.
And it sold out.
-Holy moly.
-Really an intimate little hall.
The smallest of our…
Arie?
Hi.
-Jerry Mulder. Very nice.
-Last time. it was the three of us here.
-The two of us.
-Five-and-a-half years ago.
-Up there on the balcony.
-150 people.
-The three of us.
-We were talking about that.
Five-and-a-half years ago. our first one.
-Crazy. right? As if it were yesterday.
-Yeah.
Cool. right.
Nice too. that it's so small.
On October 21st. 2017.
we had our very first show here.
The very first club show
of the group Suzan & Freek.
In the upper hall.
And we had one crew member.
and he's over there in the corner.
Jerry Mulder. ladies and gentlemen.
He was backliner. lighting technician.
front of house. and monitor man.
And security.
Financial director.
He doesn't have to do anything now.
He's earned it all.
The first time I heard of them.
I was working
at the 4Days Marches in Nijmegen.
I was a freelancer
and I worked for the company
that arranged the light and sound
for that stage.
I had no idea who Suzan & Freek were.
SOUND ENGINEER
I had to google them.
I had to look online to see who they were.
So I knew who I had to look for.
an image. so to say.
But they could
just have been two people in town.
walking through the town.
Yeah. great.
-I might go very…
-He stood here.
Last chorus.
It was a relatively small stage.
There was no room for a band.
It was full with two people.
Nice. guys.
I thought. where's everyone coming from?
It was suddenly so full.
We'll see who can sing loudest.
Are we ready?
NIJMEGEN 4DAYS MARCHES
JULY 2017
We'll start with my side. Here it comes.
One. two. three.
We can do it better.
Let's go! One. two. three.
We can be louder!
One. two three.
Then I realized that they were
more famous than I thought they were.
We were in Nijmegen tonight.
and it went like this…
Then we stayed in touch.
That's why I'm sitting here now.
When I go back and forth. it gets so…
-So boring.
-Here in the lows.
I want it to be even cooler.
I find it too easy.
Can I say that?
It began to snowball
and kept getting bigger.
At that time. I also had Bierpop.
I asked if they wanted
to play as the opening act.
"Oh. yes. Very much. What an honor."
And all saying "Wow!"
ARTIST
It was really nice
because they sat there together
with her on the piano
and Freek all dopey.
Sorry. Freek.
On the guitar. a bit like this.
And so nervous. boy.
But the hall sang along with everything.
and then I realized.
this will last another month.
then it's going to explode.
They did more shows.
They were the opening act
for international shows.
Always doing covers.
Then we said. "Shall we write a song?"
"Yeah. that's good."
And I asked.
"Have you ever written a song?"
"We've never written a song.
We've tried. but it was nothing."
-"Shall we write a song then?"
-"Okay."
Freek worked with us behind the scenes.
and we did talk about those videos.
How they did it. why they did it.
And I increasingly came to understand
that we could learn from him as a label.
How he has a very strong sense
of what works for people.
What works for the public.
We always said.
"If you have your own song.
we'll talk about it."
Until Freek came to my office one day.
"We've written our own song."
And I remember. It doesn't happen often.
and I'll say it here…
I heard that song once and I said.
"Freek. that's a genuine hit."
I remember he replied. "You think so?"
I can't bear it when the evening comes
Oh. because in the evening
I miss you often
You know I don't listen
When you talk like that
And touch me like that
And then leave
Tell me it will be fine
Give me pieces of future
Or should I just let you go
I can't bear it when the evening comes
I have truly missed you often
You'd be in the supermarket
and suddenly hear "Als het avond is."
Then you would think. guys!
All week. "This is her."
I still get that today.
Recently at the hairdresser.
it came on. Every time.
She's only human.
but so special. and you're so proud.
Thank you all for coming this evening.
Hopefully you get home quickly.
-Safe journey. Thank you.
-Thank you.
I like it best with the bun on her head.
This is also nice. but…
This is just for one night. you know.
In the glam.
It's pretty. that dress.
-You think it's pretty?
-Yeah.
Okay.
Armpits well-shaved?
Am I overdressed?
I see understated dresses.
-No. look at her. I was just about to say.
-Oh no.
-Will it be okay?
-Yeah.
-No. but I still feel like…
-That's always true with things like this.
-Suzan. act like an artist.
-Yeah.
EDISON POP AWARDS 2022
I realize that
I didn't start this to become famous.
That's the only thing
I find difficult at times.
And that's maybe the reason
why we never do anything
non-music related on TV.
-Very good.
-Great.
I like music. I don't find being famous…
I would rather not be.
Great.
I don't know
if people have a complete image of me.
because I'm not
a person who reveals my inner thoughts.
I also always tend
to make a joke out of everything.
whether good or bad.
I had a kind of Star Wars robot outfit.
and when I turned up.
Suus said. "We're not doing that." No. no…
On the other hand. that is who I am.
I'm still frequently discovering who I am.
and it's an ongoing quest.
-How are you?
-Yeah. I'm good.
I've sometimes heard people
talking about Suzan & Freek
and I didn't think
they were talking about me.
Suzan & Freek has become
a separate thing in itself.
I think the challenge is
for us to clearly determine
what we will and won't give away.
If you can dream it. you can do it.
Likeable and Dutch to the core.
The Edison in the "Album" category
goes to Suzan & Freek.
Wow.
Thank you. An Edison.
Hey. thank you. Also nice.
-Great.
-Together is good.
-Yeah.
Freek was already
working in the music industry
behind the scenes.
Before we did this. before we were famous.
And I used to go along
to the music festivals.
And nobody spoke to me.
which I thought was great.
I'm a bit of an introvert. just let me
stand in a corner with a drink.
And now. suddenly.
everyone comes over to me.
And sometimes I think.
do these people really like me?
Or do they want to get something from me?
It feels that way at times.
You get the feeling
that everyone wants something from you.
We have very good people around us.
I'm looked after.
THE ACHTERHOEK
FREEK'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. APRIL 2022
Hi. hi.
Do you always leave keys in the door?
-All good?
-Freekie.
-Yes.
-Yeah. All right.
You've got a book by Robbie Williams?
Yes. you can have it. I got it this week.
-Is it good?
-I had…
I got to pick out all these books.
and then I thought
if Freek comes. I could surprise you with…
-Nice.
-Take it with you.
-Freek. do you want tea or coffee?
-I'll have water.
The best song?
I still find "Hoofd in de wolken"
a really nice song.
And…
"Als het avond is."
I think that's a nice song. but…
it's a painful song for me.
-I don't know myself.
-You've got plenty of records.
Maybe also "Als het avond is."
Just because it was the first
and. looking back. it also related to you.
But Freek. that song was…
-You'd already finished it in July.
-Yeah.
And when the bolt from the blue
came in August…
-You separated. yeah.
-We separated.
I mean. from one moment to the next…
So actually…
The story was tacked on afterward.
Yes. while you--
-But when you hear the lyrics.
-Yeah.
-That was exactly it.
-Strange.
-Very much.
When we'd just broken through.
you separated from each other.
and that was a moment
where I…
Everyone had enough on their plate.
In that situation.
if things were not going so well for me.
I didn't want to pass that on to you.
The night that you first…
I'm telling it.
The night that you played it
for the first time…
I think it was a Wednesday evening.
At eight o'clock. we. Vincent and I.
put our signatures on the divorce papers.
The same evening.
I'll never forget that moment.
So that song has so much meaning for me.
But people around us all say.
"How can a song be made like that?
It's your story."
-Yeah. exactly.
-But it still touches me.
In just one moment.
your entire family is turned upside down.
You always think
that other parents get divorced.
You hear about
so-and-so with divorced parents.
And my parents were both almost 60.
You think it won't ever happen.
But it did happen.
I hadn't been living at home
for seven or eight years.
I would go home on the weekend.
but I didn't necessarily realize
that it wasn't going so well for them.
So it really came as a blow.
And. in the beginning.
I didn't have much contact with my father.
He was with his new love.
I find it difficult because
I don't really like to talk about it.
Suus in particular really helped me a lot.
It costs me a lot of energy
to be angry with people.
I think I handle it best by saying.
"Let's try and look at the good things."
And let's see what we can take from that.
Suus really helped me with that.
Today is a bit of a special day for us.
-We already mentioned. it's my birthday.
-It's your birthday too. Freek.
But also because
it's three years to the day
since "Als het avond is"
reached number one.
And I think it's a funny story
because we both had regular jobs
and we didn't really have
that much to do with music.
We just did it as a hobby.
And we thought. let's write our own song.
And we'll see.
And we brought it out.
and it kept growing until suddenly
it was at number one.
On that Sunday evening. we decided.
"We're going to resign and go for it."
Well. look at us now.
I'm so proud when I see all this.
Thank you for coming.
Sometimes I feel bad
That you don't want
To talk so much any more
Then I miss the time
When I could be angry with you
Now it's silent
As night falls
I whisper softly
Do you hear me maybe?
I just don't know how
With everything I do
I can't bear it when the evening comes
Oh. because in the evening
I miss you often
Tell me it will be fine
Give me pieces of future
Or should I just let you go?
I can't bear it when the evening comes
I have truly missed you often
Hey. Suzan & Freek.
…that no one's following us. no security.
-He's in shot.
-Yes. exactly.
-Wait. no. That's right.
-Yeah.
It's usually like that.
I go that way. I stand here.
-The other way round to usual.
-Yeah.
Am I walking all alone?
-Or is there a security guard?
-There's someone in the background.
-No.
-Maybe on this step or that one?
-One of the steps.
-Use that step?
When I first heard
the plans for the Ziggo Dome.
I have to admit that…
If you think about it rationally
from an industry perspective.
you think. "Steady now. guys."
But Suzan & Freek.
the rules don't apply to them.
Wow.
Bizarre to think this will be
totally full of people tonight.
Freek is truly
the brains behind Suzan & Freek.
who is busy planning well in advance.
I think Freek already dreamed
of the Ziggo Dome at an early stage
while Suzan was still focused
on the neighborhood bar.
-Hi. honey. How are things?
-Hi.
-Pretty heavy. huh?
-This one was very heavy. I thought.
It bothered me
that so much still needs doing.
-Yeah. but it's a lot for everyone.
-I think that too.
-I don't blame anyone.
-No.
-It was just chaos.
-Exactly.
But that's… how can it be? So crazy.
Sick.
Suzan & Freek. Ziggo Dome 2022.
Just look.
I have no idea where it is.
I find it quite exciting. you know.
Just think.
the pre-program starts at 7:30.
but they're not going to make it.
-I find that difficult. I'll forget it.
-Anyone have some white tape?
-Can I have a bit of tape?
-Hey. Hello!
Stress. So much stress.
Freek too. you could tell from afar.
Because there's so much to run through
and things keep going wrong.
That makes Freek and me nervous.
We're both people who want
everything perfectly under control.
You hear five men
on top of each other in your earphones.
-Just all mixed up.
-Yeah.
And you go somewhere and the stands
that should be there are missing.
-I hope that this evening…
-Yes. you need them here.
Everyone is under pressure.
but then we get nervous.
Actually. it's a bit too much pressure.
Some people might get used to it.
I think the pressure is inhuman today.
I just have to laugh at how stressed I am.
Wait for me.
-Cool. man.
-Yeah.
I really find this to be
something I never thought of.
And this is the pinnacle
of what you can do in the Netherlands.
-Great. It's happening.
-Yeah.
Do you feel the light?
Totally rock style.
Sick.
So great. this.
-Enjoy it. huh?
-This is totally rock style.
I look around me
And see the same street
But it suddenly feels as if
There is a new light here
Because we dream in color
I have to say that Freek and I.
over the past two years.
have dreamed
of a moment like this so often.
"How long will it take?
When can we finally do it?"
When you think
that everyone there came for you.
All singing at the top of their lungs.
That tank of energy.
I think that's great. It touches me.
Then you see
all those people standing there.
The madness.
That's when I did shed a tear.
It's always fun to play.
The energy that's released.
it draws you in.
The way their performances have evolved
was very clear at the Ziggo Dome.
You suddenly realize
it's become a really big show.
Ziggo Dome!
There are so many people with talent.
and not everyone gets to live it.
Astonishment.
Pride.
You don't always
have to have much experience
but just trust in yourself and go for it.
Great!
-It went well. right?
-Yeah.
It was great. right?
-Are you happy?
-It was crazy.
-Yes. really happy. And you?
Hundred percent. Yeah.
Hey. Suus. There she is.
Hi. Mom.
Hey.
How cool. right?
-Hey. Mom.
-Hi.
-What did you think?
-Oh man.
-I just sat and cried.
-Yeah?
How wonderful.
Hey.
Totally crazy. man.
-Bye.
What a strange feeling.
-Look at this photo.
-Yeah. I forwarded it.
-Vera with your mom.
-Nice. During "Lichtje branden."
How sweet.
Just a couple more chips.
I could really crave the feeling
of what just happened.
-The feeling of happiness is so strong.
-Yeah.
It's a strange feeling.
I'm kind of tired. but not tired at all.
-I thought it was great. wasn't it?
-Yeah. right?
Like you've come
to the top of the mountain.
"Here we are. The top."
And then. for the rest of the vacation.
you don't have to worry
about climbing the mountain.
-Is my alarm already off?
-Yeah. it's off.
What do you want?
-What?
-What do you want? Soda?
No. I'll have water or something.
-Great. right?
-Oh yes.
-I feel really tired now.
-Yeah?
Whoa. what the fuck? This is sick.
Check it out. It looks so cool.
You don't see that sitting there.
with the mirror balls.
Fuck.
-Cool.
-Cool. yeah?
The outfits are good too.
I'm happy with our outfits.
-It all went well.
-Yeah.
Arie.
Yeah. Great man.
My legs are tired. are yours?
I still have some
of the adrenaline. you know?
-Yeah.
-I need to come down.
VACATION. SEPTEMBER 2022
Freek?
-Can you get some water?
-Of course.
-And some…
-Sure.
-Maybe something tasty. some chocolate.
-Of course.
Great.
Sometimes. when I look at old pictures.
when I see us
playing to three people somewhere.
I think. that's how it was back then.
Yeah.
When I look at photos
of us in a caravan. playing on the street.
Now. I think--
-What an effort.
-What a lot of effort we put in.
-We really persevered.
-We kept going.
We are Suzan & Freek.
Thank you for a lovely evening.
And I was just as happy
doing it for far fewer people.
-I liked it too.
-Now it's even more fun.
That wasn't our motivation for doing it.
-Otherwise. we might never have begun.
-No.
You get more and more used to it.
I have…
Slowly. it's starting to be the case
that we see ourselves on that list.
To my mind. I don't think we have changed.
Just the world around us has changed.
More people come to see us.
and people respond differently to us.
But I'm really happy
that things between us feel the same
and also between us
and our family and friends.
It still really feels like before.
and I think that is--
-Good that it never went away.
-No.
You often say. if I wasn't here.
you would have led a different life.
We've been lucky
that we've had each other.
It keeps us grounded.
But I can imagine.
with everything going on around you…
It's so intense sometimes.
and it's nice to have a filter in between.
For some people.
that filter is drinking or something else.
And I can very well imagine
that that's enjoyable.
But. luckily. we have each other
to share it a bit.
Yeah.
What I personally really like.
is when I think
that it's actually.
I don't want to say "much more fun."
but it's still loads of fun together.
and that's the most important thing.
I think it's important too.
I think it would be really nice
to combine it with a family at some point.
That would really be…
I would like that very much.
Even though the sun sets ten times
Even though the tide is turning again
Let me lose myself for a while
In a dream
And then you stand before me again
Even though I may be dreaming
But there is nothing…
-Warm weather now?
-Yeah.
Look.
Gosh. what an animal!
More exercise than we've had
for the past two weeks.
Speak for yourself. fatty.
Bitch.
Just use this song as an anchor
Suus. you start.
Can I go on that side?
Then I can see better.
This is mental.
I can see much better from here.
Yes. that's better.
Loser does the dishes.
-Oh.
-Not even close.
I'd like to provide
a commentary on your throws.
Well. pretty close.
I think I feel the pride
more than usual when I'm on vacation.
I suddenly think.
so. that was really cool. right?
Yeah.
Or when we tell someone or show a video
of something we're involved in…
Then I suddenly think it's really cool.
Stupid. Then I think.
it's nice to enjoy it for once.
Always so modest. We should also be proud.
Wow. This is really cool. right?
Yeah?
It's really cool.
You were sorry that I couldn't enjoy it
as much in the beginning.
Because I really did enjoy it
and now and then
you didn't really enjoy it so much.
On the way home. you would sit in the car
crying at the thought
of doing it again tomorrow.
Because I didn't know
if my voice would hold up.
I found it hard.
-Oh my God.
-Yeah. I know. Great.
And then I was worried because I saw
you weren't enjoying it as much as I was.
And I thought. oh…
Is this speed and intensity…
Is this what Suzan wants?
Sometimes I'm a quitter.
I think. I'm not going to do that.
You're afraid of the unknown.
Then you say.
"I'd rather keep doing what I…"
With every concert hall.
you said. "We're doing this one?"
"No. I'm happy to keep doing the old one."
And that was after Ziggo--
-I find it more stressful.
-Yeah.
That's also an internal safety mechanism.
which is good.
Which I sometimes have less.
"The fun is in the fear."
but it's still difficult sometimes.
But you're good at that.
and with you. I'm good at it too.
I really want
to fly a kite in this weather.
Beautiful. isn't it?
I love it by the beach. Nice breeze.
Yeah. man.
The Netherlands is really small.
And Belgium. That you…
Which is good.
because if it gets too much sometimes.
you can simply come here.
but actually I find it
much too nice to want to leave.
LIBERATION DAY FESTIVAL
4 SHOWS ON 1 DAY. MAY 2022
It seemed like all the special things
you can experience as an artist
were all scheduled in one month.
Good evening. Leeuwarden.
You look good from up here.
Goddamn.
We're at the halfway point today.
We had Ziggo.
and then it all started.
-Sleep at home. as much as possible.
-Yeah.
It is a bit too busy.
-Ziggo Dome.
-The Ziggo.
Then came the first show.
Vrienden van Amstel.
then 538 Koningsdag.
Thank you.
Six or seven shows. Vrienden van Amstel.
ROTTERDAM. MAY 2022
Four Liberation Day shows.
LIBERATION DAY FESTIVAL
LEEUWARDEN. MAY 2022
Four shows. Vrienden van Amstel.
And so we had 18 in two weeks.
Plus all the rehearsals related to it all.
You sometimes forget that.
Can you make sure
we hear Dirk's mic in our ears?
But after "Mag ik." we go straight here.
-Receive the applause.
-Yes. exactly.
-Then Dirk sets the groove. and we join.
-That's good. Okay.
You have rehearsals for anything new.
and we rehearsed a lot
before the Ziggo Dome.
And you sing a lot in private too.
So. pretty grueling.
It's quiet here on the other side
But I come from here
That was Snelle.
I don't know where they get the energy.
They're the two hardest working people
that I know.
My colleagues and I sometimes
want to have a day when we think
we'll just skip that set of photos.
or we'll walk around
behind the red carpet. that sort of thing.
But they always have energy
and are always "on" and can do everything.
I see them working. then afterwards.
just the two of them in a corner
being themselves. and I think…
I admire how they can always turn it on.
to always be Suzan & Freek.
I'm happy that was the last show
and that we persevered with it all.
-And that I had a good time.
-And then you're right there again.
I'd rather skip an after-party
and do an extra show
because I find after-parties so…
I'll do them in a few years
when I'm no longer enjoying it.
then I'll celebrate all my parties.
Now. I think.
we've got all the cool festivals.
-Surely you can't miss that?
-Yeah.
No.
I think. how things are now.
just being very respectable
with no drugs. no rock 'n' roll. you know?
Thank God they don't have that.
Sometimes a bit.
which is too bad. but fine.
But it's just really nice. you know?
They are so steady. but not boring.
And I think.
if you can keep that up
over the long term.
you can take on the whole world.
If I go to bed late. I can't manage.
We have to push on a bit.
I think it's important to do it well.
That you don't think.
"If I'd just done my best
and gone to fewer after-parties
because it didn't sound good."
I'd find that annoying.
I wouldn't want that.
It has to be good. And fun. and good.
I'm always a bit scared
and think. "As long as it goes well."
We can still walk.
LIBERATION DAY FESTIVAL
ASSEN. MAY 2022
-Hello.
-Hi. Time for a quick photo?
We have to perform. sorry.
You can't have photos
with everyone at a show anymore.
I used to do it all the time
earlier this year.
We'd spend an hour and a half
after the show taking photos with people.
and then I realized
it was starting to take more energy
than the show itself.
Now that one.
now we have to finish the row.
Half an hour. grimacing…
But if you do that every night.
you realize it can't continue.
"Suzan & Freek. don't do it!"
Then I think. how bad.
We really shouldn't do that.
I find it pathetic.
So that's tricky at times. yes.
-Nice.
-Great. guys.
-We'll get you straight on the bus.
-What was that?
-We'll put you straight on the bus.
-Yeah. great.
Holy shit.
-The show was cool. right?
-It was.
I'm gonna sit on the floor.
Then they won't see me.
-My abs.
-Exactly.
This is nice.
Oh my God.
Funny. I thought they wouldn't see me now.
I look up and everyone is
watching me sitting on the floor.
All waving.
Can you pull that curtain shut?
I'll sit for a moment.
Otherwise. I always feel so…
Thank you.
I think we're very approachable.
which is what we want to be. and we are.
But that sometimes
has the disadvantage
that everyone comes up to you.
Which is sometimes really nice.
but sometimes not so much.
When I go to a restaurant
with Freek and my parents
and we sit next to a table
with a young girl.
And she begins to cry
out of panic at seeing us.
And I find it intense to have that effect.
that everything around us has changed.
Everyone is waiting here.
-Can you see?
-Hello.
Oh. how bad. I feel so bad.
-No. that's not bad.
They're waiting.
They want a photo and we're in the bus.
I wish there were some blinds.
-Shouldn't we go for a photo?
-You'll be there for over an hour.
-There are so many people.
-Okay. that's fine.
With some things.
I feel it's getting more difficult.
When I walk by an elementary school
and the entire yard shouts my name.
I think. shit. maybe I shouldn't
walk past a schoolyard anymore.
Then never walk past a schoolyard again?
That's crazy.
Can you turn the camera off? Thanks.
On stage. it's okay.
It's more the stuff around it.
Yes. Everyone just runs around
taking photos all the time.
You think.
just leave me alone for a second.
Keep walking.
-Nice that it's just the two of us.
-Yeah. great.
I'm the happiest when it's the two of us
in the car heading home.
Because then everyone around us is gone
and it's just the two of us for a while.
Isn't it crazy.
what we're experiencing. you know?
That's what makes me the happiest.
-Right?
-Yes. honey. I like it too.
It's on here.
the busiest period of the year.
-We made it. Until the end.
-Yeah. right?
It was a lot. but it was great.
Nineteen shows in seventeen days.
and each show for more than 15.000 people.
I think that's pretty intense.
And we were thinking.
can we do this? Will it work?
Can the crew handle all these shows?
Will it work technically?
-Will your voice hold out?
-Will it hold out?
But it all went great.
so now the rest of the year…
Surely now it will be fine.
BUSSUM. MAY 2022
Important day.
Hey. hello.
-Hey. hello.
-Journalist from the Weekend.
What a life you're living.
Compared to a couple of years ago.
-You have to think. what happened?
-Yeah.
-Do you experience it the same way?
-Yeah. The last month in particular was…
-The guy just came right up to me.
-Yes. but you mustn't do that.
That's the Weekend. We don't talk to them.
Can you just check? Whether he…
Say that they should let us see it.
Or just get rid of it.
We didn't actually want to talk with him.
We once had an interview where
someone was taunting us with questions
in the hopes we would snap.
I can't remember what it was.
but it's always
about something very personal.
While I'm there thinking.
we've written a new song.
Maybe you should ask about that.
-I should have walked away.
-I was looking for you.
I was there thinking. "Should I. yes. no?"
That was in the course of the questions.
Suzan. hello.
I think there is
always a certain line between…
who we are as artists
and what is truly private. for us alone.
And I think that's something
we have to think hard about
to keep things chill for us.
This might be a heavy question
to ask right at the start.
but do you guys have a type of wildcard?
In case you want
to dance with someone else or…
Separately.
-What a strange question.
-A wildcard.
We have an open relationship… no.
-No. we don't have a wildcard.
-No.
In my head. I'm kind of thinking
that I want to tell 100% Nederland.
"Cut out that bit about the wildcard."
Because I…
What's private needs to remain private.
That's the last piece of us
that we still own.
Here. your pass.
-Thank you.
-Great.
I think we're saying
that the story about the wildcard--
That can be taken out.
Then he'll understand.
-Is that okay?
-Yes. I want…
We've become entertainers.
And we're also still just people.
Sometimes you notice…
You wouldn't ask your friends that.
It's not very respectful. actually.
What do you think?
The question is awkward.
-Maybe you shouldn't ask it then.
-Exactly.
It goes far. I think.
What they do with people. they…
But that applies to everyone.
Everyone is under the microscope.
If anything happens here in the village.
then everyone talks about it for a week.
And the following week.
they talk about something else.
But in the world of fame.
it's really hard right now. I think.
And sometimes it's nothing
but it gets so widely reported.
That doesn't make you happy.
But it's independent of them.
It's the case for everyone.
I don't like it.
I hear some people ask.
"Isn't it hard
working with your partner all day
and seeing them in private?"
Well. we had a farm. so…
It isn't hard.
If you're with someone
you like being around
and who you work well with.
it's not annoying at all.
We've never found it annoying.
and we don't see that in them either.
It's crazy that people
are interested in the first place.
LOOSDRECHT LAKES
AUGUST 2022
I'll have an Aperol. Bang!
But we have…
I have four glasses.
I wanted to bring truffle. Suus said no.
There's beer. But no…
Here's another one.
No. that can't be.
There's cork in it.
-Cork.
Well…
At the beginning of this busy period.
it was hard
because we saw each other less.
And that was difficult.
But I've noticed
that a certain small club of people
formed around me
that has become smaller over time
and that I want to see more.
I'm really very conventional. Yes.
That's true. Yes.
But it strikes me
that a lot of people are.
Then I think.
how nice that we found each other.
because we get along well.
I'm not one for full-on parties.
I don't stay up late often.
I don't drink. don't do drugs.
I'm really quite boring.
But I do like
doing nice things with my friends
and having a good time
with people I care about.
But. on the other hand. conventional…
I do really great shows.
So what exactly is cool?
Getting blind drunk on the weekend
or playing a concert for 40.000 people?
So. yeah…
Yes. maybe I am a bit conventional.
but I find myself to be pretty cool
with what we do.
I've noticed that spending time together
doesn't consume any energy.
We're good at being together.
sometimes without having to say anything.
It lets us both recharge.
And it isn't the case
that we view it as an activity.
"Let's do something together now."
We just enjoy being together
and that. yeah…
I don't really think about it.
I just find…
If I want to go cycling.
I'll say. "Want to come for a ride?"
Then we'll go cycling together.
I prefer that to being alone.
We could fill up our entire week.
Requests for TV things
and interview for this.
we could appear in Belgium for this…
But I said to Freek.
"I don't want to be so busy."
I just don't want that.
I also want to have a nice life.
Maybe kissed
Fathers and mothers
A little laughter too at everyone
Now it feels exactly as it used to
You and I
The world at my feet
When I looked at you
I suddenly became
Someone from the past again
-See you.
-Bye.
-See you later.
-Have fun.
-Bye.
-Later.
-An hour…
-Yes. just that.
-Accordion.
-Funny going to a show like this.
-Yeah. right?
When do we do this now?
I remember well that we…
Just before corona. we were in the meadow.
Kraantje Pappie was on the main stage.
-We said. "Great show."
-Yeah.
Big stage.
with the big "Daddy" at the back.
-I thought. "That guy's made it."
-Yeah.
Well. let's go then.
I think I'm still very keen
to make people happy.
And I want people to like me
and like what I do.
So. maybe I.
above all.
should try a little harder to accept
that there is a large group that like it.
I should be happy with that.
We're successful in what we do.
People come to our shows.
And I try very much
to look at what we do have
and the people who like it. instead of…
the people who maybe don't like it
and feel the need to say that or… Yeah.
-Have fun.
-I still find it quite exciting.
-Exciting. right?
-Suus.
-I find it horribly scary.
-Exciting. huh?
-Nice to have you here.
-Super cool.
-Horribly scary.
-It will be all right.
You can tell by looking at you.
you really are all…
Just take a deep breath.
-The first song. then you'll be okay.
-Yeah. that's right.
Then I'll be back.
It will be fine.
You're wearing a gorgeous outfit.
I'm glad you guys are here.
-Good that you're all here.
-Good you're here. man.
The Zwarte Cross
is the festival of The Achterhoek.
Freek is never afraid to think big.
although I don't think he ever dared dream
that they would play
the main stage at Zwarte Cross.
Get yourself together.
Holy shit. man.
Suus was literally 200 meters
from the main stage cooking fries.
She never dared dream
that she would ever stand up there.
They haven't been so big for long.
but if I know them
and they keep doing what they want.
I think they'll keep going
for a long time.
Until they're 80 or something.
This is it. guys.
Zwarte Cross. here…
Suzan & Freek!
Zwarte Cross. good afternoon!
But weren't we gold?
Tell me. what if I can never forget you?
Now suddenly you're gone
But it doesn't yet really feel
As if I can do this
Do you think it's easy. perhaps?
You're haunting my thoughts
Because I still believe in us
But weren't we gold?
Tell me. what if I can never forget you?
What if I can never forget you?
How great it is.
as someone from Achterhoek.
to stand in front of so many people.
You want to share this
with the people you hold dear.
To see Suzan and Freek.
and all those people…
Where are all my people
from The Achterhoek?
Great. yeah? Nice.
We also try
to involve family and friends a bit more.
That's maybe because
we found it more challenging before.
and then you don't let other people in
because you think. I'm busy enough
with making sure it's all good.
Now we have the space and the control
to let friends and family
literally stand next to us on stage
and watch along.
And I'm very happy with that.
Then the two worlds blend together more.
Zwarte Cross.
may I have your loudest applause
for none other than Snelle!
This is such a moment of realization
for all three of us
that we're up here in front of you
today at the Zwarte Cross.
The best festival of the year.
The fields are packed full everywhere.
It's a 60-minute set.
and there's only one song
where you might not know a few lines.
For the rest. everyone sings along.
because they're the biggest right now.
It's quiet here on the other side
But I come from here
Where your bike can be left
By the roadside unlocked
It's quiet here on the other side…
You can be louder.
As out of tune as you can.
It's quiet here on the other side…
-More off-key and louder.
-Come on.
It's quiet here on the other side…
-We're almost there.
-Yeah!
It's quiet here on the other side…
Zwarte Cross. let me hear you!
It's quiet here on the other side
But I come from here
Where your bike can be left
By the roadside unlocked
I think that we did dream of it. yes.
I never thought that we would do this.
I always thought
I had to do something really special.
And I'm simply doing the same as always.
and suddenly I can live
from the music alone.
Yes. I'm happy
with where we are now and who we are.
We belong there now.
Before. I thought
we were simply visitors. you know?
As if everyone had made a mistake.
They didn't realize
that we were standing among them.
Now. after corona.
I feel more like we belong there.
That it suddenly got so big.
I had never thought about it.
And I think it's really great.
Zwarte Crossers!
We love you!
WITH SPECIAL THANKS TO
SUZAN & FREEK
I look around me
And see the same street
But it suddenly feels as if
There is a new light here
For all my life
I passed it by
But what I never saw
You now release in me
That it can be so beautiful here
Do you feel the light…
And it has become our work.
but in this room it feels
as if we're still
doing it for fun. which is true.
I've never told Suzan
that we earn money from it.
-Keep it that way.
-Yeah.
Last week you were
wearing a body warmer. what was that?
Was that a statement or something?
What was it?
I thought. that can't be true.
Why did you do that? Now you mention it.
-What was that?
-You can do that. It's hip.
-Is it really hip?
-Yes. it's hip.
I sometimes lag behind.
but I thought. Freek!
-Is it really hip?
-Yes. it's really hip.
Yes?
Also. the shoes with those narrow trousers
and that large jacket. I thought. why?
Why is everyone
wearing such a large jacket?
-If you like it. you should do it.
-No. but yes. Okay.
A little tent. or not?
-Cheers. guys.
-Yeah. guys.
There's a fly near you all the time.
-Did you wash?
-Wash?
Dung fly.
But it is real
Since you are here
I see everything differently
To how I know it
Hope that it never goes
Because we dream in color
Everything seems
More beautiful. now I'm looking
With you
Can you feel the light?
Can you taste the mist?
Easy to say that it's unreal
-Can you feel the light?
-Can you taste the mist?
-Since you are here
Hope that it never goes
Because we dream in color
Subtitle translation by: Adam Dean